Go: Add Registering Views (#3275)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/instrumentation/go/manual.md

}
```

### Registering Views

A view provides SDK users with the flexibility to customize the metrics output
by the SDK. You can customize which metric instruments are to be processed or
ignored. You can also customize aggregation and what attributes you want to
report on metrics.

Every instrument has a default view, which retains the original name,
description, and attributes, and has a default aggregation that is based on the
type of instrument. When a registered view matches an instrument, the default
view is replaced by the registered view. Additional registered views that match
the instrument are additive, and result in multiple exported metrics for the
instrument.

You can use the
[`NewView`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/metric#NewView)
function to create a view and register it using the
[`WithView`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/metric#With)
option.

For example, here's how you create a view that renames the `latency` instrument
from the `v0.34.0` version of the `http` instrumentation library to
`request.latency`:

```go

> view := metric.NewView(metric.Instrument{

Reviewer: Other examples I would include:

* Drop metrics with DropAggregation
* Drop attributes using AttributeFilter

If we add those examples, I would explicitly state that the SDK filters metrics and attributes before recording/storing metrics, allowing Views to be used to reduce memory usage of high cardinality metrics or attributes.

This can be done as a follow-up if needed.

Author: It would be probably easier to handle it as a separate review. But if it won't be merged until Monday then I will do my best to address the comment 😉

Author: We could also add example how to report as an exponential histogram, how to use wildcards...

I propose to just add a reference that more examples can be found https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/metric#pkg-examples and we could add more details in our package documentation.

Author: I added https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/pull/3275/commits/b162a9a4b923033ef8880bdba3f6228368e297ae and created https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/issues/4526

Author: I want to do it as a separate PR and first address the comment in OTel Go: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/issues/4526

Author: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/pull/4527

	Name: "latency",
	Scope: instrumentation.Scope{
		Name:    "http",
		Version: "0.34.0",
	},
}, metric.Stream{Name: "request.latency"})

meterProvider := metric.NewMeterProvider(
	metric.WithView(view),
)
```

The `NewView` function provides a convenient way of creating views. If `NewView`
can't provide the functionalities you need, you can create a custom
[`View`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/metric#View) directly.

For example, here's how you create a view that uses regular expression matching
to ensure all data stream names have a suffix of the units it uses:

```go
re := regexp.MustCompile(`[._](ms|byte)$`)

> var view View = func(i Instrument) (Stream, bool) {

Author: Of course. My bad

> var view View = func(i Instrument) (Stream, bool) {

Author: Of course. My bad.

> var view View = func(i Instrument) (Stream, bool) {

Author: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/pull/3275/commits/ea263b37a290dd0b548e7ea750de8f95076cbb4c

> 	s := Stream{Name: i.Name, Description: i.Description, Unit: i.Unit}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // In a custom View function, you need to explicitly copy the name, description, and unit.
	s := Stream{Name: i.Name, Description: i.Description, Unit: i.Unit}
```

Author: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/pull/3275/commits/ea263b37a290dd0b548e7ea750de8f95076cbb4c

}
```

### Registering Views

A View provides SDK users with the flexibility to customize the metrics that are
output by the SDK. They can customize which metric instruments are to be
processed or ignored. They can customize aggregation and what attributes are to

> be reported on metrics.

Author: This is copy pasted from: https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/signals/metrics/#views

Every instrument has a default view, which retains the original name,
description, and attributes, and has a default aggregation that is based on the
type of instrument. When a registered view matches an instrument, the default
view is replaced by the registered view. Additional registered views that match
the instrument are additive, and result in multiple exported metrics for the

> instrument.

Author: This is copy pasted from https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/java/manual/#views

}
```

### Registering Views

> A View provides SDK users with the flexibility to customize the metrics that are
> output by the SDK. They can customize which metric instruments are to be
> processed or ignored. They can customize aggregation and what attributes are to
> be reported on metrics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A view provides SDK users with the flexibility to customize the metrics output by
the SDK. You can customize which metric instruments are to be processed or ignored.
You can also customize aggregation and what attributes you want to report on metrics.
```

Author: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/pull/3275/commits/ed886c81a39140cf695ddfc4e08b65bebcd0ca1d

Every instrument has a default view, which retains the original name,
description, and attributes, and has a default aggregation that is based on the
type of instrument. When a registered view matches an instrument, the default
view is replaced by the registered view. Additional registered views that match
the instrument are additive, and result in multiple exported metrics for the
instrument.

> You can use
> [`NewView`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/metric#NewView)
> function to create a view and register it using
> [`WithView`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/metric#With)
> option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the
[`NewView`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/metric#NewView)
function to create a view and register it using the
[`WithView`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/metric#With)
option.
```

> For example, here's how you might create a view that renames the `latency`
> instrument from the `v0.34.0` version of the `http` instrumentation library to
> `request.latency`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, here's how you create a view that renames the `latency`
instrument from the `v0.34.0` version of the `http` instrumentation library to
`request.latency`.
```

```go
view := metric.NewView(metric.Instrument{
	Name: "latency",
	Scope: instrumentation.Scope{
		Name:    "http",
		Version: "0.34.0",
	},
}, metric.Stream{Name: "request.latency"})

meterProvider := metric.NewMeterProvider(
	metric.WithView(view),
)
```

The `NewView` function provides convenient creation of common Views
construction. However, it is limited in what it can create. When `NewView` is
not able to provide the functionally needed, a custom
[`View`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/metric#View) can be

> constructed directly.

Author: This is from package docs: https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/metric

> The `NewView` function provides convenient creation of common Views
> construction. However, it is limited in what it can create. When `NewView` is
> not able to provide the functionally needed, a custom
> [`View`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/metric#View) can be
> constructed directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `NewView` function provides a convenient way of creating views.
If `NewView` can't provide the functionalities you need, you can create
a custom
[`View`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/metric#View)
directly.
```

> create a custom view directly

How?

Author: If you follow the docs there is an example. Do you think I should copy-paste it?

Reviewer 2: Won't hurt!

Author: PTAL https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/pull/3275/commits/645c5f13b8400afce75a987b303cbe5c1d3bc8ae
